So now, here's a short lecture
on database parameter groups.
So it's possible for you
to customize the database engine using parameter groups.
The idea is that you are going to set parameters.
And you have two kinds.
You have the dynamic parameters,
that will be applied immediately,
and you have the static parameters,
and they're only going to be applied
after the database instance reboots.
Now, you can also decide
to change the parameter group altogether
from a database instance.
So you must reboot the database for this,
but this could be very handy
to switch from the default parameter group
to a custom one that we will create.
If you wanted to understand all the parameters
that you can modify,
you need to look at the AWS documentation
or the console also give you tips and hints.
But there are must-know parameters that can be helpful
from an exam perspective.
The number one is that for PostgreSQL, and SQL Server,
you can force SSL connections
by setting the rds.force_ssl parameter to the value of 1.
And you have a similar parameter
for MySQL in MariaDB called require_secure_transport= 1,
again, allowing you to force SSL connections.
Now let's go into the console console
and have a look at database parameter groups.
So parameter groups are accessible
from the left-hand side panel.
And as you can see, when we create a database,
it creates a default parameter groups for us.
And we could click on it and see anything,
but we won't be able to change this group.
In this Parameters filter,
you can just type any parameters and see how it is.
We'll create our own parameter group.
So I'll call it a parameter group.
And I need to select my database instance.
So for me, it's going to be postgres10 because we use 10.4.
The group name, and I'll call it group-demo-postgres,
and I'll just call it Demo Group for Postgres.
You have to put a description in.
Click on Create.
And here, I'm basically able, in this group,
to change any of my parameters to whatever I want.
So as you can see, we can change the authentication_timeout
to whatever value we wanted.
If we click on it and click on Edit parameters,
then you're literally able to change the value
for you want for anything.
But so the one parameter that I want you to look at
is going to be called force_ssl.
And as you can see, rds.force.ssl is here.
It's a dynamic type of parameter.
So we won't need to reboot our instance.
And it's a boolean.
And this is to force SSL connections.
So I can just click on it, edit the parameters, and say 1.
And this will force my database
to have SSL connections only.
So this is how I force encryption for Postgres.
Okay, I saved it.
So now my parameter group has been saved.
And let's see if that works.
So I'll just refresh my page.
And then after refreshing my page,
I'm going to type force_ssl again.
Okay, now the value is 1, so it means it's enabled.
So now what I can do is assign this parameter group
to my Postgres database.
So what I want to do is take this parameter group,
which by the way,
I can edit copy, compare, reset, or delete.
I want to assign it to my database.
So I'll go to my database,
and I'll click on it, and I'll modify it.
And within it, I can now assign my parameter group.
So let's scroll down.
And in there, I will have here the DB parameter group.
And I will say it's group-demo-postgres.
Because I changed the group,
I will have to reboot my instance.
So I'm fine. Everything else, I'll leave the same.
I'll click Continue and then Modify DB Instance.
But I will Apply immediately instead of applying
during the next scheduled maintenance window.
So I'll this right now, Modify DB Instance.
And now, my instance is going to be restarting
and rebooting using this new parameter group.
But this time,
it will basically have forced SSL connections,
which is what I wanted.
So after a few reboots,
it turns out that if you scroll down,
you see that the parameter group is group-demo-postgres,
and now it's in sync
and is using all the parameters that have specified.
So that's it for this lecture. I hope you enjoyed it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.